The cost to replace an enterprise
platform in this SAS apocalypse that
people talk about is an extraordinary
expense. Let's take that cost, and then
let's take the cost associated [music]
with the human capital doing that
instead of something else cuz the
[music] platform was doing the work for
you. And then let's add up the cost of
the GPU factory and the [music] tokens
that will materially affect their
business model. And so for a simple
application on our platform, it would be
10 times greater in cost to try to
replicate it with a language model.
People that run businesses understand
that people [music] make mistakes. They
never will forgive software for making a
mistake.
>> Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today I'm here with Bill McDermott, CEO
of ServiceNow, and the closest thing we
have to a rockstar in enterprise
technology. [music] We talk about
leadership in the age of AI, what
enterprise customers actually want, the
difference between SAS platforms and the
SAS apocalypse theory, and the next 10
years of ServiceNow. Welcome. Thank you
so much for being here.
>> Thank you for having me, Saara. Thank
you.
>> So um I want to talk about your career
and leadership and what's going on with
ServiceNow, but I want to start at the
beginning. Um I read Winner Stream last
week.
Uh and you It's an amazing book. You
talk about the deli you bought when you
were 16.
Uh first of all, that's a very strange
thing to do. Um
but it is such an amazing story. Can you
tell me a little bit first about your
thought process, and then we can talk
about how you managed it?
>> Yeah, I don't um I don't deserve too
much credit for um
you know, doing a strange thing buying
the deli cuz I was really trading in
multiple part-time jobs. Mhm.
Uh at the time I was stocking shelves,
pumping gas, and bussing tables.
and so I had a chance to consolidate all
of that into the delicatessen and have
one job where I could spend all of my
hours and for a kid going to high school
that kind of made a little bit more
sense. So I got lucky.
I bought the business for 5,500 notes,
7,000 with interest. If I make the
payments, I keep it. If I miss a
payment, they take everything away from
me. So it was a pretty cut and dry
moment. And I think the the biggest
thing that I've learned in my life and
especially there
is it's all about the customer. In the
end, the customer and the customer alone
determines whether you win or lose and
it's a very simple equation. If you keep
them coming back, you got a good chance
and if you don't, you lose and you know,
back then one of the most interesting
parts about that store was knowing your
customer and knowing your base and I
really had, you know, three main
customers. You know, one was the blue
collar worker like my dad as I said in
the book was rich on Friday and dead
broke by Sunday morning.
There were the senior citizen this and
this was the early days of DoorDash, I
guess because they never wanted to leave
their house and we delivered and no one
else did.
And the hard part was getting the kids
to walk a block and a half past 7-Eleven
to come to my store
and these were the early days of video
games
and Asteroids and Pac-Man and you know,
you tell that to people today, most of
them never even heard of these games,
but kids would stand there for hours
plucking their parents' quarters into
those games and that's how I got them to
walk a block and a half past 7-Eleven
and come to my store.
At the end of the a long day, one of the
young people said to me, you know, when
we want to have good food,
be treated with dignity and respect, and
play video games, we come to your store.
And when we want to steal stuff, we go
to 7-Eleven. So,
if you take care of your customer, you
know who your customer is, and you give
them what they want just the way they
want it, no matter what business you're
in, you've got a really good chance. And
that's all I did.
And it put me through school,
including college, and it got me my
start. And I have to tell you, the EQ
that comes with dealing with 500
customers a day
is worth a lot.
And I have a feeling the world could use
a little more EQ right now.
>> I learned a great deal not managing a
deli, but at least being a hostess in
Outback Steakhouse.
>> See? You can relate, right?
>> Well, you just you know, the repeats of
dealing with a lot of different types of
people.
>> Yeah.
>> Um so,
it's still like amazing and strange to
me. You talk about this set of customers
that you
you know, understood and tried to serve.
Like, were you just sitting there in the
deli observing them before you bought
the thing? Like, how did you even figure
out these are people?
>> worked there first, you know, and what
happened was the owner
was going through some personal divorce
circumstances and wanted out.
>> Mhm.
>> And I was the guy that was always there
anyway.
So, he tried to sell it. It was only a
1-year lease. You never owned the land
or the building, so he was selling a
1-year lease.
The lease was owned by Sun Mark
Industries, which is Sunoco gas station.
>> Mhm.
>> And they could throw you out anytime
they wanted. So, only a kid who didn't
know any better would pay anything for
it. So, eventually, that's how the deal
got put together. I said, "I don't have
any money,
but I'll, you know, take a note from you
and pay you back with interest. If I
miss a payment, you get everything back.
What was really interesting about the
story is I didn't have any money.
Um, but what I did have because I worked
there is relationships with all the
suppliers. So, I got them to give me the
first order on consignment. I said, I
will always pay you back. This is not a
favor. This is a chance for you to get
your shelves filled up with your stuff
that I'm going to sell for you, but in
the end, I'll always owe you that first
delivery.
>> Mhm.
>> And probably they charged me too much on
the margin, but I didn't care. I was in
business and that's all I wanted was a
shot. And that's all I've ever wanted is
a shot. And I'm so honored that in my
life, I've had the shot. And when you
have a chance, you can really bring the
winner within you out. And all people
should ever want is an opportunity
because an opportunity is a gift. And
it's something that you should really
cherish and every time you get one, make
the most of it.
>> That resonates. I um, one of the things
I love about being in venture is you're
in the business of giving people shots.
>> Exactly.
>> And uh, entrepreneurs like yourself they
>> Yeah.
>> especially when they get to be very
successful, they value it for a really
long time.
>> Well, I deeply admire what you do and I
mean, can you imagine being the guy that
came from the corner store that went to
the corner office and I think about your
great job that you do in the venture
world and how unbelievably creative you
have to be and the benefit of seeing all
these young entrepreneurial companies.
It's something I've always had a great
deal of interest in. So, like I should
really be doing the interview of you
right now, Sarah.
>> Absolu- absolutely not. Um, when you uh,
uh, okay, so it starts with starts with,
you know, your your part-time jobs in
the deli and then this amazing career in
sales and leadership in SAP and
ServiceNow. Um one more piece on the
leadership uh front before we go to
you know, talking about the company
that's happening in the tech landscape.
So, in the book you talk about
resilience and ambition and disciplined
execution.
>> Yeah.
>> When [clears throat] did those ideas
crystallize in your head as the way you
would lead? And then
do you do you think that changes today
given how dynamic the landscape is? And
uh I was just talking to the uh leader
of you know, tens of billions of dollar
AI company. And they're like, we have to
update our strategy every month. Like,
we have no idea what's going on. Um and
and so, uh how do you how do you think
about operating today's environment?
>> I had the great pleasure last night of
uh meeting with uh about 800
uh business people that were in town
from Brazil.
>> Mhm.
>> And we were talking about leadership.
And they took me back to my uh book,
When is Dream. Uh a lot of them listened
to it. Um which is fun cuz I I actually
read it uh kind of straight through in
between business trips. And I'm glad I
did because it it had the authenticity
to the book I had hoped for.
Um but it was wonderful being with them.
And they really wanted to talk about
leadership. And I think leadership is
the uh the greatest profession in the
world.
And in this environment we're in today,
which is changing and it's dynamic like
never before. And it's fast like never
before. I tell them, it is fast, but
it'll never move this slow again. So,
this is the way it's going to be.
>> That's kind of stressful.
>> Yeah, it is in it it is in one way. Um
but it's inspiring in another. You know,
we have to learn
to get like real inspiration
from the challenges that are in front of
us. Because if we're able to cope with
them, and especially if we're able to
overcome them, we get superpower. But, I
go back to the original job being a
leader, and you know, getting my first
break with getting my job at Xerox.
And, you know, Xerox back then was the
Google of its era.
>> Right.
>> And, it was just like such an honor.
And, you know, I go back to that
original interview a lot in my mind, and
I think about the opportunity of getting
that shot.
And, you know, I'm getting geared up
to leave Long Island. My dad drops me
off at the railroad tracks, and you
know, I'm just turned 21 years old,
and I guaranteed my dad I was coming
home with my employee badge in my
pocket. And, there's something
important about that, because my dad
said, "Billy, you're a good guy. Don't
put all that pressure on yourself."
>> Mhm.
>> And, I said, "No, no, no, I guarantee
it."
And, I went in
to New York that day, and I was reading
annual report on how that CEO, David
Kearns was his name, was reinventing
this corporation under the quality
management principles given to the world
by Deming.
And, at that time, as you know, most of
the most valuable companies in the world
were from Japan.
Um, and they were actually selling a
very high-quality product
for a lesser price than Xerox was
building a lesser quality product.
>> It's hard.
>> Hard to do, right? And, so this is
exactly the time I'm joining the
company, but I was so inspired
by this guy who wanted to transform that
company that by the time I got into New
York, I wanted to be the next David
Kearns. But, I had to go knock on cold
doors for a living to get my shot.
So, on my last interview,
I'm so psyched up, cuz I'm meeting with
the big boss at 9 West 57th, overlooking
Central Park, and
I sit on a bench next to another friend
that's in buddy today
who's waiting for an interview.
>> Mhm.
>> And he's been waiting for a long time.
I said, "What are you doing waiting?" I
go over to Joanne Siciliano who's a
receptionist and I said, "Look, I I had
all day. I'm not going anywhere. Please
let Mr. Fullwood know I'm waiting and I
really look forward to our meeting."
I was instantly invited into his office.
And this is the essence of it all. As I
looked over
at Central Park on the 38th floor in 9
West 57, I realized then as I realize
now
it was not an interview.
It was a battle for survival.
Because if I get that job, I'm in
control of my own destiny.
It's my shot.
And it's up to me to do something with
it.
So at the end of an interview, he said
to me, "Bill, it's very interesting
interview. You're interesting young guy.
The HR department's going to get in
touch with you in the next couple of
weeks." And I said to him, "You know,
Mr. Fullwood, I don't think you
completely understand the situation,
sir."
And he looks at me with a tilted head
like, "What's this kid up to?" And I
said, "Um
I haven't broken a promise to my father
in 21 years and I guaranteed him coming
home tonight with my employee badge in
my pocket."
And he really like kind of tilts his
head now like, "What's this guy up to?"
And um you know, he goes, "You know,
Bill McDermott, as long as you haven't
committed any crimes, you're hired."
Now,
I hadn't committed any crimes. Of
course, I told him that and I
double-checked that you really mean it
and I'm hired. And he goes, "Yeah." So I
go over there and I, you know, he's kind
of sitting the way you are. I pick him
up, hug him a little bit, put him safely
back in his chair
and I run past the receptionist Joanne
and get down uh um 5th Avenue and head
over to Sixth Avenue to a Bun and Burger
or payphone and I call up mom and dad
and I say, you know, break out the
Korbel. Got the job. Now, people don't
often know, especially in Silicon
Valley, what Korbel is.
>> I'll admit I do not.
>> It is [clears throat] like the cheapest,
worst champagne you've ever ever had in
your life.
>> Okay.
>> But in Long Island, where I come from,
that's Cristal. So,
the point of the whole thing,
years later,
Emerson Fullwood asked me to give a
speech at the Rochester Institute of
Technology to students.
And in introducing me, he said, the only
time that he had ever broken policy
at the Xerox Corporation was the day he
hired me. I didn't know that.
And what I found remarkable about it
is that he remembered that,
and he knew what he was doing when he
did it, and thought it was worth it. So,
we have to put tremendous care
into people.
Tremendous attention to detail when it
comes to, you know, uniqueness in human
beings and what they are capable of
doing.
And without him, I wouldn't have gotten
my shot.
And I never forgot that. And today, when
I have CEO meetings, he still comes to
them.
And he's my friend for life. So, I think
somehow in the mixture of things
with AI and today's society, we're
losing a little bit of the human power
that we all have to connect with each
other and do magical things together,
and just make sure we remember
AI is to serve people
>> Mhm.
>> and to make the human ambition greater,
not to take it away from us. And so,
that's uh my feeling on, you know, just
how things have changed,
but in many ways, the essence of
leadership, human connection,
people
are just more important now than ever.
>> I know I said I was going to then ask
you about service now, but I have to ask
you a little bit more about this.
>> Let's do it.
>> Do you think it's possible to coach or
to teach people that type of agency that
you have?
>> Yeah, I do. Um I think that, you know,
someone asked me last night, you know,
that similar question, and I said, you
know,
I'm a person like a lot of other people.
I was a very shy, quiet, laid-back kid,
and really came into my own through
work.
>> Mhm.
>> And, you know, those part-time jobs I
was telling you about, and the desire to
be somebody in this world and know that
my only way out, I wasn't going to make
the NBA. I loved basketball, but I
wasn't going to make the NBA.
>> Yeah, me neither.
>> Right. So, I said, you know, what what
can I control?
>> Mhm.
>> I can control how hard I work. I could
control
desire to do something and make a
difference. I can control that.
And so, I got a lot of confidence from
work.
And, you know, other people might get
confidence from something else, and
that's fine.
But, I think it's so important to be
connected to work, especially work that
ties to people.
>> Mhm.
>> Cuz when you know how to deal with
people,
and in the deli I had 500 of them a day,
you start to get a good feeling
and a good understanding
that if you really listen,
if you really care
and you're really there, present and not
just going through the motions
there's people that want to connect with
that kind of person.
>> Mhm.
>> And so I really do believe that you can
teach that, but you do have to
practitioner
you know, those
um
ideas, you have to um be a part of the
process
and I think so much is done today on the
the beautiful mobile phone in your hand
that it's replaced you know, the human
side of the connection. I like you, I've
got one in each pocket and I value them
because they make me more productive and
happier because I can do those things.
But
we really do have to train people.
Um we have to make them do it.
Um where they actually have to simulate
and be trained and be certified and
understand and be coached well so they
have the confidence to get out there and
be in front of other people where they
can lead and make a difference. And I'm
convinced that they can do it. Yes,
there are differences. Some people are
more skilled at it naturally, innately,
no question but more people are capable
of more things than they realize.
>> That's very encouraging. Uh one thing
that also struck me as soon as I asked
you the question about like leadership
in the age of AI was your immediate
reaction. I said, you know, something
that's a very
uh common sentiment. It's the the pace
of change is scary. And your immediate
reaction was like, well, it's also
inspiring. Right? It's a very like
positive attitude um
for especially for you know, someone
running an amazing, incredibly adorable
platform company where you're also
facing more questions than you have
previously.
>> Sure.
>> Um how do you think about like, you
know, in getting everybody at your
company or encouraging other people to
have that type of reaction to change?
That it's all an opportunity.
>> Well, for one, I agree with you that a
lot of people are frightened of change
to begin with. The era of AI has
disrupted every industry, every
business,
every person, and everybody needs to
really rethink
everything.
And it seems to be coming all at once.
So, my approach to that was to lean into
it. And one of the ways we did that here
is put together a white paper
on the blueprint for agentic business,
which I'll happily give you a copy of
today. Um,
and train them
>> Mhm.
>> on, you know, what is the difference
between a language model and an
enterprise platform.
Not saying better or worse, they're both
important. They're both extremely
important. And one actually makes the
other stronger. But if you don't know
where one begins and one ends,
it really is kind of confusing for
people. And that was a big unlock.
>> Mhm.
>> I literally had CEOs tell me that that
white paper actually let them see the
world totally different. That there were
many things in it that they didn't know
or didn't realize. One such example
would be,
you know,
um, let's take an example that's real.
Every company today has a compensation
issue. So, okay, we have a
compensation issue on aisle seven in XYZ
Corporation.
The language model will do a great job
of telling you,
"In a compensation situation like this,
please consider step one, two, and
three." Excellent. Does it in
milliseconds. Fantastic.
Only problem is it doesn't actually
close the case.
>> Mhm.
>> So, now in aisle seven, we got to have
the data,
the context,
and we'll have to go in and out of
several different iterations of
departments cuz let's assume it's a
sales person in aisle seven, and oh by
the way, that's connected to the HR
department. And because it might be a
problem,
probably finance is involved in it or
legal or compliance or risk. And now we
have data and a workflow that's gone
through many different iterations,
databases, and functions to come back
and remediate the issue and close the
case.
>> Mhm.
>> That's what a workflow platform like
ServiceNow does.
And it was also important to have AI
think.
Workflow acts.
That's an unlock for a lot of people.
>> Mhm.
>> Another case example would be,
hey, hey, you know, I'm a bank.
I've got 15,000 of my own engineers.
My CEO's under pressure from the board
to come up with AI use cases.
The board meeting's coming up in 60
days,
and I got to look like I got all my
story straight on what we're doing to
infuse AI. You agree that that's a
common thing, right?
>> Very common. Yes.
>> Very common thing.
Okay.
So, one thing would be
AI and some of the AI um code out there
is fantastic, and it can write new code
very beautifully and set up the engineer
for success and get things done at a
speed never before done in the world.
It's also true
that that net new code comes at a cost
because
the cost to replace an enterprise
platform in this SAS poc ellipse that
people talk about
is an extraordinary
expense to try to match what some of
these really important enterprise
[clears throat] platforms do.
>> Mhm.
>> Cuz you'd have to rebuild it.
You're getting a model. I'm going to
write code now. So, I'm rebuilding your
model.
>> Mhm.
>> Let's take that cost.
And then let's take the cost associated
with the human capital doing that
instead of something else cuz the
platform was doing the work for you.
And then let's add up the cost of the
GPU factory, the business model
associated with the language model
company, and the tokens that will
materially affect their business model.
We've actually done the math on this.
>> Mhm.
>> And so, for a simple application on our
platform, it would be 10 times greater
in cost
to try to replicate it with a language
model.
>> Hm.
>> Now, the other thing about that is if I
give you the language model and it makes
a mistake, you call me up and you say,
"Hey Bill, the language model made a
mistake." And I say to you, "The
language model works." And you say,
"Yeah, it works, but it made a mistake."
Well, it's probably right, but it's not
deterministic.
And incidentally, it doesn't have the
context of all the data that has
materialized in the company and our
relationship for a couple of decades
now.
And so, what we're learning too is
people that run businesses understand
that people make mistakes.
They never will forgive software for
making a mistake.
>> Hm.
>> So, we're kind of in a situation where
at a very small fraction of an IT
budget, a premier platform is a bargain.
And to combine that with AI and the
things that AI can do, you get the best
of both worlds. You get more innovation,
better integration, and a better
outcome. Try to build it yourself at a
10x higher price, and then you have a
problem. And I just tell you that the
model works cuz I just gave you the
model.
You don't have someone to call to fix
things.
>> I I I think a lot of the
SAS apocalypse discussion
ignores the basic fact that I don't
think most businesses want to build
workflow software for everything they do
internally.
And I do think they want somebody to be
responsible for it. And I think it takes
a lot of energy to go gather that
context today. It is not an automated
thing. And maybe it'll become more
automated, but but that all resonates
for me. I I will have to ask you you
know,
um
So, LLMs they can in the traditional
interaction mode, they give you an
answer when you ask a question, right?
Now you have long horizon agents, maybe
you have computer use, people can use
applications with these models. Does
that change your thinking at all?
>> No, I think we lean into it. You know,
our our perspective is these language
model companies are fantastic. And
they're very important, and they're
going to do fabulously well. Um we said
the same thing with the hyperscalers.
You know, it wasn't that long ago that
people were like, "Hey, you know, why
wouldn't the hyperscalers just eat
software?" Because everything is going
to go to workload in these great
hyperscaler companies, and they are
great companies.
>> Yeah.
>> They're fabulous companies. And so, our
perspective was we have to be
the AI control tower for business
reinvention that integrates with all the
hyperscalers,
with all the language models, and all
the systems of record because they, too,
are important companies and the data
that resides in them is very important.
So, if we can be that fabric that
connects all those nodes, now we can
help you run
a true agentic business. And on top of
that, we made the move into security not
because we're going to do all things in
security,
but because US is the world's largest
economy, China's number two, and
cybercrime is number three.
>> Mhm.
>> It's a $1 trillion a month
problem.
And so, we feel that being able to
integrate to all the good security
platforms, but manage IT and OT, which
is the operating technology, with Armis
now becoming a part of ServiceNow,
we're going to give corporations the
ability to have a full purview of the
whole landscape. And so, for example,
in operating technology, you know, it
could be networks with devices attached
to it. It could be manufacturing
with various tools that are or aren't on
a network, where AI can or may not even
see them. It could actually be medical
devices in a healthcare situation. Um it
could be a world's prestigious bank
managing critical infrastructure,
um which includes the people, places,
things, but also the building and the
things in it to have all of that in one
automated AI platform
for this reinvention of your business,
it's pretty compelling. So,
it's all there now.
And I really like see such a future
and such growth
in all of these businesses, our core and
what we've extended it to because we're
a native AI company. Even the platform
itself now is autonomous.
And you know, you've seen what we did
with Moveworks, the agentic front door
to the enterprise, and Vezza, which is
human and non-human identity. And now
the security move with Armis on top of
an unbelievable core. By the way, we
integrated these businesses in 20 days.
20 days. So, a lot of companies
don't have the engineering power to say
they can do hard things quickly.
>> Mhm.
>> Um but you know, we're blessed with some
real talent here.
>> It's very impressive. I have uh sold
companies to
you know, large enterprise software
vendors where it takes like a year and a
half of rebuild to get some value out of
it.
>> Totally.
>> Yeah.
Um uh uh I think it's a really uh good
historical reminder that people forget
that there was this fear about the
hyperscalers as well, which as you
mentioned, have become very important to
all of our businesses.
>> Totally.
>> And yet um have not replaced the need
for, you know, workflow software and
platforms.
>> Yeah, as you said, you know, actually
are very good partners, you know, and on
the uh back of uh ServiceNow franchise,
get billions in workloads into those
clouds.
>> Mhm.
>> And they're all such great companies,
but they all tend to do different things
super well. So, for the customer to have
choice is also a great idea. Just like
they'll want choice on the language
models.
And us not staying in the way of that
and giving choice, but acting as that
control tower
is a huge competitive advantage or
differentiation, which whichever your
perspective might be.
>> Do you think there's any segment in um
enterprise software that is at risk from
generated code and agents?
>> I think that it's true
that there will be
um companies that will be at risk. It's
also true that they theoretically should
be more valuable because of the data and
the context around that data.
But if there was a risk, I believe it's
more departmental
>> Mhm.
>> companies. So, if you think about
companies that do something that span
multiple departments or are a serious
system of record, that is very hard to
replicate, they're safe. And they'll
they'll be a part of the future. If
you're serving one
function
and what you do is not tremendously high
value add and it might not even be a
high up on the priority list of a a CEO,
um I think that that would be the the
chance where
the vulnerability equation really rises
quickly.
>> Mhm.
>> Um
we're fortunate in the sense that we go
end-to-end on a horizontal and north to
south on a vertical, up and down the
stack and across the enterprise. And I
think that's a pretty huge moat. And uh
right now I I believe the last time I
looked at it was more than 85 billion
workflows are in flight as we're having
this podcast and we got 7 trillion
transactions happening on that platform.
Um and it's representing the most
important brands in the world. And
that's not only something we're proud
of, but it's also a serious
responsibility cuz those companies can't
miss. And that system always has to be
there for them and fortunately it is.
>> You uniquely have run two companies that
are just clearly platform businesses,
SAP and ServiceNow. Um and do you have a
definition in your mind of what makes
something a platform business? Because
I grew up as an investor in the age of
SaaS.
>> Yeah.
>> And and you know, rise the cloud and
everything. Uh and it is it I I think it
was wonderful for innovation that you
could build like
sort of
features that turn into companies,
right? Software workflows that were um
sort of tangential to uh system of
record, for example.
>> Yep.
>> Um
uh ServiceNow originally began with like
IT service desk as the workflow, but how
do you how do you think about like how
the positioning is?
Uh and the actual work is very different
now, and then like you know, how how you
got there.
>> Yeah. I think that had we only um done
what you rightfully point out, which had
been an IT
uh service company as an example, that
might have been a system of record for
the IT department. But I think when CEOs
look at a corporation
and they say, "What are the needle
movers?"
Those are the companies that, since you
mentioned it, too, that I work for,
um you know, one is running the
financial system
of global corporations of mass scale
and multiple currencies, geographies,
industries.
Um and it's really kind of thorny
um to and complicated to even think
about removing something, especially
something that's probably been mass
customized for the unique attributes of
that business.
>> Mhm.
>> Um so, the investment scale was great.
The switching costs are very high.
I think you would consider that a
platform.
And I would say the same is true in a
certain sense for a company like
ServiceNow, um but for a different
reason. Yes, it's a system of record for
all the things IT and the services that
it provides,
but it's even bigger than that in the
sense that
all of the other systems of record
integrate with it. So, now you have
roughly 800 of the more substantial
systems of record that integrate into
it. And because of our in-memory open
source data platform, so it's built on
the open source technologies,
but its speed, its scale, its ability to
ingest data, we could take as much as
you give us.
But similarly, you might say, "Okay, you
know, I'll give you your core IT and OT,
and I hope I get the holistic end-to-end
process, but you know, I have data
lakes, I have hyperscalers, I have
language models.
What about in the flow of work or a
business process?
What can you do for me if I don't want
to put it in ServiceNow? Oh, we make a
zero copy."
And then the transaction is complete,
done and dusted, nothing moved, there
was no risk associated with it, and it
works. So, I think that is a
mission-critical
um platform in the execution of work.
And the basics of getting things done.
What's unique about it is you can change
the business process instantaneously
using the AI tools that are resident in
the platform. So, if you want to build a
net new application, you can do so. If
you want to see how the business process
would change in a knowledge graph, you
can do so, and you can see how that
change impacted the processes and the
way work flows, and all the individuals
impacted in the corporation in real
time.
Uh so, I think the the motion of that is
very, very hard to replicate, both on
the history of it, the bandwidth of it,
and also what we have designed in terms
of the system's capabilities. It's uh
it's very unique.
>> One of the
things that makes workflow platforms so
sticky is the
um the organization beginning with IT
uh learns how to deploy workflows on it.
And as you said, maybe they're do they
can do it even more instantaneously now.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
uh the cost to implement new business
processes, integrate, customize has
always been very high for enterprises.
Um is that decreasing with AI? Um is
that an like a advantage for you, a
concern for you?
>> It's a great question. It's actually a
big advantage because we were always
quick to implement.
>> Mhm.
>> You know, nobody has time for multi-year
projects.
>> Okay.
>> You know this. And uh
the customer wants to get the value
really fast. And with autonomous
platform like we have now,
um we have major customers, big ones,
that are going live in less than 30
days. Big ones.
And so, think about it. You know, if you
go back, as you mentioned, you know,
think about the financial crisis era,
and the scale even then of SaaS
applications, if they could have been
implemented in less than 30 days,
everybody would be doing a rain dance
with happiness.
Um it took months.
And to think that you can do things, big
things, complex things in less than 30
days, in some cases even faster. Um and
it's all modular, so you can get your
quick wins and just keep going. Um you
know, some people thought that the SIs,
you know, would be hurt by this, but the
difference is they actually have many
more projects now that they can do much
more quickly.
>> that's what you're saying.
>> Yeah, I'm saying much more quickly.
Everything is happening much faster. The
customer's ROI is better. I'm a big, you
know, proponent of a native AI company,
and everything we do is about being a
native AI company. Every change we make
is because of AI.
And some of those things, you know, they
change business models, they change um
the way humans actually work in the
company. For example, you know, 90% of
our customer service cases now are
managed by agents.
>> Mhm.
>> And, you know, that that means like only
10% are actually involving people. Um
and so there's a lifting and a shifting
and a changing of the guard in terms of
what people do for the critical thinking
and the judgment calls that they have to
make instead of the tactical, you know,
work of just grinding out details. And I
think that makes people happier in the
work, but it also does change the work.
>> Um if you were to fast forward 5 years,
like what do you think
is different about the employee base at
ServiceNow or even like the work being
done?
>> I think that in terms of an employee
base, I think you're going to see that
the net new added head count will be
dramatically reduced.
>> Mhm.
>> And that's because the company will be
far more productive. The agents are
real.
>> Mhm.
>> And they will take on a tremendous
workload. So where to keep up with
growth in a growth company like
ServiceNow, you have to hire thousands
of people in finance and HR and the
supporting functions and services just
to keep up with it all. And now the
agents are going to be able to do a lot
of that. So you're going to invest in
things that really matter
like humans that engineer great
innovations and that humans that
actually manage the relationship and the
importance of human-to-human connection,
building trust,
um making promises and keeping them, and
enduring a relationship and the net
present value of loyalty in that
relationship. That's all going to be
human.
Um but I I can see a company where, you
know, you don't have to really increase
head count to achieve that goal.
And I do think that the
the bar got raised
in terms of differentiating
your skill set
and making sure what you're capable of
doing can't be easily replicated by an
agent. Um, not just at ServiceNow, but
in all businesses. If an agent can do it
as good or better,
that's an easily easy economic decision
to make, which is why, you know,
there'll be 2.2 billion of these agents
entering the workforce in the next
couple of years.
So, you know, there's going to be a lot
more agents than there will be people.
>> When you think about you're just
describing, you know, ServiceNow is
growing about 20%.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh, a year.
>> Um, 13 plus billion in revenue trailing.
So, massive business growing at scale. I
think one of the things that's so
interesting about this um,
SaaS-pocalypse narrative is uh, you
know,
many of the companies as described are
actually like doing really well on
fundamentals. Um,
what are the signals you look for in
your own business besides, you know,
what customers tell you they want to do
with you?
>> Right.
>> Um, like quantitatively or otherwise
that say like, what we're doing in AI is
working.
>> Well, the most important thing is we've
expanded boundaries of the platform. So,
we have a company that's operating
globally.
>> Mhm.
>> We operate across multiple industries.
And the companies that we serve, we
serve everything from IT to the employee
experience to our fastest growing uh,
TAM, customer relationship management,
obviously all the work that the creators
do, and security as I talked about. So,
what I'm looking for is the adoption of
the
AI control tower for business
reinvention. And are we the agentic
front door to the enterprise?
Are we managing the humans and the
non-human identities?
Are we connecting in the workflow data
fabric all of the nodes that are
operating in an enterprise?
Um whether it's a data lake, a
hyperscale, a language model, a system
of record, all those things should go
through the central nervous system,
which is ServiceNow.
And obviously, when I think about IT, we
know the people, we know the places, we
know the things. When I think about OT,
we actually know the networks, the
devices that reside on them, the
critical infrastructure, the shadow IT,
the disconnected controllers in the case
of a manufacturing company as an
example. So, this amazing real-time
insight and visibility into how that
company is running and how we can make
that company run better. That's the
ethos of everything in terms of the
customer relationship, that we know
more, that we care more, and that we can
do more for that customer than any other
enterprise company in the world. That's
the game plan.
And, you know, for my money,
um what else do I look for? I look for
the AI
and the assists
that the agents are doing
to help the humans in the companies we
serve.
And I want to see that the trend line of
those assists and the consumption of
that innovation is really going
uh right and up to the north side of uh
town because by doing that, you've
solidified your position as super
important to the way the company
actually runs. And not to mention the
fact that the shareholder value creation
takes on a whole new meaning once you
kick in that consumption model on top of
everything else.
>> When you um talk to like this amazing
enterprise customer base that is deeply
embedded with you and then as you said
importantly trust you and trust you to
do more all the time. Um what is the
state of play in terms of you know, you
describe a very forward-looking vision
for what AI can do to transform
enterprises. Like where where are people
today? What are the first questions they
ask you? Do they believe it?
>> Yeah, I think that's a great um point
because most people today know that they
have to do something with AI.
But like in the case of Brazil as an
example,
only 11%
of the companies since that was last
night's meeting
um have actually gotten past the
experiment phase where they're doing
experiments.
And so we're seeing now that companies
are going past the experiment phase into
mainstream on building the agentic
business, on building the agents to
complement the humans and I'm driving
business model innovation and
efficiency.
That is now picking up steam.
But you have to remember it's a very
diverse set out there.
I mean in public sector,
they're just basically now trying to
consolidate complexity and get one
department to speak to another
department so we don't have billions of
fraud getting through the cracks.
Um other industries like health care as
an example, we're now moving into the
modernization phase. So the patient
experience isn't so miserable because
the professionals that work there are
great, but the systems have been holding
them back. But if you look at a
financial services firm for example, um
you know, they're moving full full speed
on what can I do with AI to
fundamentally rethink how I run my
company, to manage my head count better,
um to get more done with a lot less. So,
it's kind of based on industry, based on
geo. Different geos have
um, adopted it more quickly. The US is
the leader in terms of of consumption
and adoption of AI and they're moving
faster. I give you a flavor some of the
industries, but I would say that it's
more about um, modernization
as a standard. And the first movers now
are moving out with AI and they're
aggressive and they're going for it.
>> When you think about like what going for
it means, are there a set of use cases
that are universal across companies or
or are there different things that
matter to the different segments?
>> I think that they're
um,
they're looking at their business model.
>> Mhm.
>> And what can AI do to change my business
model? The ones that are first movers or
early movers.
Um, and head count is definitely on the
table.
Um, obviously if you believe in the
agent world,
uh, and you do increase head count, it's
because you can see that the heads are
supporting the digital transformation
and the inclusion of the agents and
there's more revenue to be gotten by
adding them.
>> Yeah, there's ROI on it. Yeah.
>> Exactly. And they're not going to add
them anymore.
Meaning people without a clear ROI case.
And in many cases a lot of these
companies, especially if you look at the
years 2020
to 2024,
they hired a lot
through COVID. Not a lot of people talk
about this. I haven't actually heard
anyone talk about it, but when they did
the hiring and everybody had a hand in
this, a lot of it was virtual.
A lot of it then was, you know, keep the
people. We need the people.
Um, you know, there's a crisis out
there.
And now they've realized they've layered
up the companies. Um, some of the people
maybe didn't get as close a look as they
should have because, you know, Zoom was
the way to meet them, greet them, and
hire them.
And now with the inclusion of AI in the
business model and the innovation of the
companies, it's kind of like, how do we
get leaner? How do we get smarter? And
if AI does make us better, we should see
that in the ultimate profitability of
the company, the revenue per employee of
the company. And the company should have
expanding margins, expanding or
reaccelerating revenue, and should be a
more exciting growth story than it was
2, 3, 4, 5 years ago. So, there's high
expectations for AI can do.
>> What is the biggest thing that's changed
in customer conversations for you about
AI over the last year?
>> Right now, I think it's just
tell me what I need to know.
Um, it's not like, let me come in and
discover your problems.
>> Mhm.
>> Or let me bring you a solution cuz I
have one in my pocket and I can't wait
to share it with you.
Um, it's like,
you know my business. If you don't know
my business, there's no conversation.
But let's assume you know the business.
Be very prescriptive.
Tell me very specifically,
at the macro level, depending on the
level you're talking to, how do I
transform the company in keeping with
the CEO vision or the management team's
vision?
At a departmental level, you really
understand whether it's sales, it's
human capital, it's engineering, or it's
technology or CTO and its orientation.
You really understand the landscape and
you have very
quick solutions that can get up and
running and deliver the value in a
highly predictable manner and it's AI
driven. Like they have to have AI in
there because they know the AI is the
force multiplier. And so, I would say
the dance
um has gotten brief.
The execution is where they want to
spend their time. Get me there fast.
>> Uh pretty impatient set of customers,
but they're uh sounds like they're
pretty decisive given the parameters.
>> Real decisive and and real fair.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, you know, very open-minded. If
you can help me, do it because I need
the help. Everyone will tell you they
need the help. They're not telling you
they have all the answers. So, it's our
job
again to know more about this than they
do. Otherwise, the why do they need us
in the room?
And then, you have to have a position
that you take
that brings something unique and
variable to the equation. I always tell
people, if two people are in the same
room at the same time with the same
opinion, one of them is redundant.
>> Uh I want to um uh well, I want to close
up with like two um maybe more personal
questions.
Uh you have a lot to cover with
ServiceNow, but you're also just an
interested interested guy. What inspires
you or makes you curious in in AI or
elsewhere in technology um outside of
what you're doing with ServiceNow?
>> Well, I'm fascinated [clears throat]
by so many things.
Um
what really interests me in technology
is how it will truly improve
the world, the human condition.
Um it could be an environmental
conversation. It could be what we're
seeing happening in outer space. It
could be uh a global corporation uh
trying to do unique things in a world in
new places that they've yet to conquer,
but they can do so with technology now
and AI.
And they can simulate a presence
that might not actually be physical, but
it could be unique, virtual, and new.
There's new routes to market. There's
new channels, there's so many new things
that could be done. So, I think that
this is the era where everything really
does evolve and possibilities exist
where they just weren't wasn't possible
3 4 5 years ago. Um so, I find that, you
know, it goes back to the quote that I
put in the in the book. Um since you
mentioned what is dream.
When the great Robert Kennedy once said,
you know, some men see things as they
are and say, "Why?" I dream things that
never were and say, "Why not?"
So, I always try to look at things that
didn't exist or don't exist
with the application of technology or
just a great dream.
What's possible?
>> Uh and then in terms of just the the the
day-to-day in between your your
dreaming, um what is the day in uh the
life of Bill McDermott as ServiceNow CEO
look like?
>> Well, it it's uh it depends on where
you're physically at at the time
um based on what you're doing because
the time zones are all different. But,
if you're in
uh California, which we are today
together,
um you know, you start your day off. Um
it really easy to understand this with
Europe.
You migrate yourself then to the United
States and you wrap up with Asia.
Um so, you always have to keep the tempo
around the time zones and what's
happening in the global economy. I just
try to be a global person and be a
leader that's involved in all dimensions
of the company in any time zone in the
world. So, that's one one aspect of it.
>> And you're talking to your teams there
hearing what's going on with customers,
what's going on with
>> Today today I've been in two out of the
three
with the regions of the world and I'll
finish up with the third. And absolutely
I want to hear what's going on with
them. What's going on with the customer?
What's going on with the business?
What's going well? What's not going
well? Um based on you know, where
they're at at any one moment in time I
can see
and I feel things
very deeply and I'll offer my
suggestions. I try not to
make the decision for everybody but I'll
offer my suggestions just on
observations and then you know, we have
an open honest riffing
relationship on ideating on something
and then ultimately we get some place
quick. You know, there's no time to
screw around. We got to get to the point
and move on.
A lot of time with customers, you know,
I feel that
I really get grounded with the customers
and understanding what they're trying to
accomplish and how I can help them.
And you know, a lot of people talk about
you know, sales and you know, the idea
of running corporations.
It's all based on the customer and the
customer alone. They determine whether
you win or lose.
And if you never lose that in your
heart, you're closer to success than
failure.
The other thing is I listen to the
employees, you know,
for example, yesterday I started my day
with 17 conversations with 17 quota
carrying reps.
>> Wow, that's a lot. Okay.
>> 17
>> Mhm.
>> And I got 72 on my calendar this month.
>> Okay.
>> And it's inspiring because anytime you
need to
feel like
feel good
talk to the people that are closer to
the customer and you realize just how
great your company is, how great the
people are, how smart they are and and
you know, they have so many good ideas
and they're doing so many good things.
You know, one woman said to me
yesterday, you know, she was most proud
of the health check
of her customer. She told me all about
the customer. The health check is our
heuristics around customer satisfaction
to performance to the system and so
forth. And it just inspired me. And
then,
you know, always try to do, you know,
one-to-one, one-to-few, and one-to-many.
And last night I, you know, wrapped up
my day with um 800 executives from
Brazil.
And it was like amazing. And they wanted
to, you know, talk about leadership and
many of the things that, you know, you
want to talk about. And I think
everybody is in uh
in the mode right now where
they want to learn. They want to
experience what you think and um they
want to grow. And they are uncertain.
And to some extent, you know, they don't
have all the answers. And sometimes
they're even afraid. And I explained to
them,
you know, don't look for the escape
hatch.
You know, this is the moment
>> Mhm.
>> when leaders really matter.
Because as the waters get choppy, you
know, we see who's tough and who's not.
And when the tide goes out, you want to
be fully dressed.
And even if things don't look so good,
you'll figure it out. If you're fully
dressed, then you're ready for the
battle.
And I think that um this is bringing out
the best in real leaders. And I live for
this moment.
>> You seem like a leader for that moment.
And I I love the confidence that you
have that um other leaders want to meet
that change, too.
>> Thank you, Saadia. [music]
>> Awesome. Thanks so much, Bill.
>> It was an honor meeting you and uh
spending this time with you. Thank you
very much.
>> Find us on Twitter at No Priors Pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That [music] way you get a
new episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-priors.com.